# [英文摘抄](./index.md) | 01 It's only natural... 这很正常...
原文地址: [https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/197888/what-does-only-mean-in-its-only-natural-that](https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/197888/what-does-only-mean-in-its-only-natural-that)

***

> It's **only** natural that you should worry about your children.

How would it be different if I removed “only” from the sentence?

> It's natural that you should worry about your children.

What does “only” mean and emphasise here? Is there a way to rewrite the sentence and save the meaning it conveys?

I’d love to have some examples. Thank you in advance.
***

"Only" (and in some cases "just") is often used in this way as emphasis. The actual meaning will vary, but usually means that whatever follows is less extreme, less significant, less uncommon, or less unusual than you might expect. For example:

> My car wouldn't start, but I found it was **only** that I was out of gas.

Here "only" implies that I expected the problem would be serious, but it turned out to be minor. Another example:

> She made a trip halfway across town **only** to buy some pastries from a **bakery** she really likes.

Here there is an expectation that, if she is going to make such an effort, she would be expected to buy more than just some **pastries**.

> To start to understand Buddhist thought, **only** remember the fact that nothing is **permanent** and everything changes.

Here there is an expectation that Buddhist philosophy might be complicated, so the "only" reminds the reader that it actually is based on a simple philosophy.

In your example, "only" **implies** less extreme. While it's expected that parents will worry about their children, some people might still think it's unusual. The "only" helps **reassure** their parents that their concern is reasonable.

***
Certainly there are different ways to express certain ideas in English, but as long as they are **idiomatic** none are "better" than the others. They're just different, and might not **convey** the same information. "Only" and "just" are useful in sentences like these -- there's no need to "**reword**" to clarify, because the intention is already perfectly clear. As **intensifier** words, they can often be **omitted**, but they are not **superfluous** any more than others like "very" or "most".

***
For example, I can say, "She is pretty" instead of "She is very pretty", but that would change my intended meaning. In the same way, "It is only normal that ...' has more emphasis than, "It is normal that ..."

***
[返回目录](./index.md)